=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

B<modules.ini>

=head1 VERSION

Version 0.001

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<modules.ini> file describes the dotfiles modules that should be
installed and stowed to your home directory.

The following configuration options are available:

=head2 B<pull>

The URL used by git to clone the repository.

=head2 B<push>

If the push URL is defined it will be configured in the git repository as
push URL.

=head2 B<source path prefix>

Instead of linking the full module to the home directory, only files in the
B<source path prefix> directory and its subdirectories are linked.

=head2 B<target path prefix>

The B<target path prefix> path is prepended to every file when it is linked to the
home directory. This allows us to install modules to subdirectories of the
home directory without replicating the structure in the module which is
useful if you're using someone else's repository where you have no influence
on how the files are stored. See Example 1 below for an example using
F<vim-airline>.

=head1 EXAMPLES

=head2 B<Example 1> Use a github and a gitlab repository

In this example we use a public github repository for our Vim configuration
and a private gitlab repository for our .profile file. The vim repository
uses a different pull and push url, the profile repository uses the same url
for pulling and pushing. Then we add the vim-airline repository, which is
hosted on github, and link it in the .vim/bundle/vim-airline subdirectory of
the home directory

  [vim]
  pull = https://github.com/YOUR_ID/dotfiles-vim.git
  push = git@github.com:YOUR_ID/dotfiles-vim.git

  [vim-airline]
  pull = https://github.com/vim-airline/vim-airline.git
  target path prefix = .vim/bundle/vim-airline

  [profile]
  pull = git@gitlab.com:YOUR_ID/dotfiles-profile.git

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<dotf|dotf>

=head1 SUPPORT

=head2 Bugs / Feature Requests

Please report any bugs or feature requests through the issue tracker
at L<https://github.com/skirmess/App-Dotfiles/issues>.
You will be notified automatically of any progress on your issue.

=head2 Source Code

This is open source software. The code repository is available for
public review and contribution under the terms of the license.

L<https://github.com/skirmess/App-Dotfiles>

  git clone https://github.com/skirmess/App-Dotfiles.git

=head1 AUTHOR

Sven Kirmess <sven.kirmess@kzone.ch>

=cut
